---
title: 5500
date: 01.08.2013
author: Michael Hughes
---

Today's number is `the estimated number of a calories`_ that a Tour de France rider consumes in
a single day. Now I'm cheating a bit with this number since it is a rough
estimate instead of a more exact statistic.

5500 kcal per day for a Tour de France rider is still interesting
though because it can be used for the sake entertaining comparisons. The
average tour stage this year `was around 209km`_, let's call it 200Km.

Now let's consider a car driving along the same stage as the Tour de France
rider. Let's be optimitic and say the car is modern, small, and well maintained--
we will estimate fuel consumption at 20 MPG (or in proper units ~11.76L/100km).
Such a car would consume 178610.88 kcal en route or in other words ~32 times what
the human rider needed to travel the same distance. 

Of course the car is much bigger than the human rider so we should take mass into 
consideration. A `2013 Corolla L`_ weighs 2734lb (or ~1240kg) and let's say that `our rider is 150lb`_ 
(or 68kg). The car's engine spent ~144 kcal/kg to move the car from start to finish
of the stage whereas the rider used ~80 kcal/kg (or 56% of what the car needed) 
to get from start to finish.

What's do all these numbers mean? To me they mean that we (as a race) still have a long way to go
in terms of making speedy personal transportation an energy efficient means of getting around.


.. _our rider is 150lb: http://voices.yahoo.com/fun-facts-2009-tour-de-france-3700950.html?cat=14
.. _the estimated number of a calories: http://www.bicycling.com/garmin-insider/featured-stories/eating-tour-de-france
.. _was around 209km: http://bikeraceinfo.com/tdf/tdfstats.html
.. _2013 Corolla L: http://www.toyota.com/corolla/features.html#!/weights_capacities/1831/1838/1848/1833
